---
layout: post
title: "Death Guard vs Squats"
published: false
date: 2023-08-12 13:00:00
tags: [Squats, League of Votann, Chaos, Plague Marines, Nurgle, Warhammer 40k, Kill Team 2021]
categories: [kill team, battle report]
---

Introduction
============
My squats suffered a one point loss against my son's Death Guard in an "Into the Dark" battle using the Loot objective on the Vault Map.  Primarily 

Pre game
========

Teams:
------

League of Votann
----------------

  1. HEARTHKYN THEYN
      *  Ion Blaster, Plasma Axe
      *  Equipment: Weavefield Crest (3 EP), Auto-Calibrator (1 EP)

  2. HEARTHKYN FIELD MEDIC (HEARTHKYN FIELD MEDIC)
      * Bolt Revolver, Plasma Knife

3. HEARTHKYN GRENADIER (HEARTHKYN GRENADIER)
Autoch-Pattern Bolt Pistol, C8 HX Charge, Fists, Gravitic Concussion Grenade
Equipment: Plasma Knife (2 EP)

4. HEARTHKYN JUMP PACK WARRIOR (HEARTHKYN JUMP PACK WARRIOR)
Autoch-Pattern Bolt Pistol, Plasma Axe

5. HEARTHKYN KINLYNK (HEARTHKYN KINLYNK)
Ion Blaster, Fists

6. HEARTHKYN KOGNITAAR (HEARTHKYN KOGNITAAR)
Fists

7. HEARTHKYN LUGGER (HEARTHKYN LUGGER)
Ion Blaster, Fists

8. HEARTHKYN GUNNER BEAMER (HEARTHKYN GUNNER)
EtaCarn Plasma Beamer, Fists
Equipment: Plasma Knife (2 EP), Auto-Calibrator (1 EP)

9. HEARTHKYN GUNNER LAUNCHER (HEARTHKYN GUNNER)
L7 Missile Launcher, Fists
Equipment: Plasma Knife (2 EP), Auto-Calibrator (1 EP)

10. HEARTHKYN GUNNER CANNON (HEARTHKYN GUNNER)
HYLas Rotary Cannon, Fists
Equipment: Plasma Knife (2 EP), Auto-Calibrator (1 EP)

11. HEARTHKYN GUNNER RAIL (HEARTHKYN GUNNER)
Magna Rail Rifle, Fists
Equipment: Plasma Knife (2 EP), Auto-Calibrator (1 EP)

12. HEARTHKYN DOZR (HEARTHKYN DOZR)
Autoch-Pattern Bolt Pistol, Concussion Knux

13. HEARTHKYN LOKATR (HEARTHKYN LOKATR)
Ion Blaster, Fists

14. HEARTHKYN THEYN AXE (HEARTHKYN THEYN)
Ion Blaster, Plasma Axe
Equipment: Weavefield Crest (3 EP)


Tac-Ops
-------

Took Settle Grudges, Recover Item and Secure Unexplored Rooms. 

For scouting I dashed the Lugger towards an objective. The boy took infiltrate so got the initiative.

TP1:
* Tac Ops - I revealed Settle Grudges, Recover Item
* For Ploys - I grudged their Heavy Gunner  as I figured he would be trouble (he was) and placed my Kognitar's attack token. But did no other ploys. I should have done Wrought Defence, but more on that in a minute. 
*  Spend the time opening doors, looting and placing setting up for TP2 action. 
* Boosted JetPack to the recover item token. Right in front of two plague marines behind a barricade. They were on conceal, so couldn't overwatch me, but it was a bit of a risk if I didn't get initiative TP2.
* My only shooting was a focused missile launcher shot into a plague marine without  grudge tokens, and even with my attack token I re-rolled my 1 into a 1 (not for the last time) but would have done a fair amount of damage if it wasn't for the marine's Disgustingly Resilient which ended up leaving him only taking 3 wounds. 
* Then I lost Comms to poor placement (should have left him outside the door rather than trying to set up all the APL I needed to secure the room in TP2) and blight launcher did for him with 4 hits. I saved 2 but Hardy couldn't be used, I hadn't done Wrought Defence and I re-rolled my 1 into a 1 (still not for the last time). 

Score 3-2 to the Squats due to my son killing my Comms rather than looting. 

TP2
* I grudged the gunner again, updated the position of my attack token, used Toil Earns on an objective with three enemy around it and Proximate Fire power. 
* Also revealed Secure Unexplored rooms
* The death guard had executioner, and eliminate guards 
* I won the initiative and immediate picked up the item with JetPack and moved behind the barricade with all his friends. One of which immediately died as the plague marine sergeant charged my Plasma Gunner. Despite getting in a good hit with the plasma knife he was no match for a power fist and went down on the second hit. The sergeant then hesitated, not sure whether he should blast my medic or my jet pack warrior with his plasma pistol.  He went for the JetPack, overcharging and rolling 2 1s!!! This would have killed my jetpack warrior if not for the medic  
* After such destruction I wanted revenge which I felt was best served hot and with a CX H8 charge from my grenadier (who was also the subject of the Death Guard's eliminate guards Tac Ops. "It'll be all right", I thought "I'll wipe out all opposition in that room and that'll solve that issue, right?" Well I was only part right. The charge with blast, the attack token, grudges (from Toil Earns and the one the heavy gunner had for killing comms) managed to do 18-22 damage on each of the three marines!!! Only a single marine was left standing on 4 wound. Nice!
* Strangely enough the remaining marine was the one who'd already been wounded by the rocket launcher. He lost no time in charging my grenadier who only scored a single hit in the fight. This was parried by the marine's axe which he then used to great effect to cut the poor squat down to size. 
* My gunner with the rotary cannon got out of the way of my leader and let the axe wielding manic have the good news, with said Cannon. Grudges from Toil Earns and his recent Heartkynicide meant, cause the marine to explode with Effluent Denise all over my gunner. 
* Malicious Volleys and plasma pistol volley on overwatch destroyed my medic and jump pack warriors. My kognitar decided destrecion was the better part of valour, scooped up the precious item from the jump pack warriors smoking corpse and cursing that his commander had yet again failed to use any defensive ploys legged it as fast as his stumpy cloneskein legs out let him out  of the room. 

Both of us looted 3 this turn.  the BUBONIC ASTARTES had scored 2 tac ops (executioner and emlinate guards) and I had scored (recovery item and secure unexplored rooms). So I was still a point ahead.  The situation wasn't great, whilst we were both down to half strength and my right flank was gone.

TP3
* Determined to score settle grudges I moved of my strategic options on the right side of the board (Toil Earns, 2 more grudge tokens and moved my attack token. 
I lost initiative and my second gunner with the rotary cannon to more Malicious Volleys. 
* Here's where I fluffed: TP2 I'd been moving my leader over to support the right flank which I continued in TP3 (I should have charged down the plague marine who killed my gunner in the center). The plague marine sergeant took the opportunity to start a hatchway fight with my leader, quickly dispatching her (more awful rolling and the marine's FNP) to gain a third grudge (the other two didn't do me any good). 
* My lugger, launcher and kognitar positioned themselves for TP4

keeping the recovered item and more exploring rooms gave me two more VP. but I hadn't looted much this TP so we were now tied as the boy wonder was well on his way to maxing out his Tac Ops scoring Rob and Ransack when he killed my leader.

TP4
This was over all to quickly as Nurgle Sergeant went on guard. If I killed him I would deny the second part of "rob and ransack" and score "settle grudges." Unfortunately the plasma pistol on guard won the day and my gunner was turned into a small pile of smoking sludge.  Whilst I scored a bit more loot, the boy max his tac ops and looted too. 

So I ended up losing the game by one point. 
